## Installation

### Create workspace

You need to install `vcstool`. You can install it using pip:
```
pip install vcstool
```

Clone this project and go to the root:
```
git clone https://github.com/Tirrex-Roboterrium/tirrex_workspace.git
cd tirrex_workspace
```

All the following commands must be run from the root of this project.
Execute this script to clone all the ROS packages and download the gazebo models:
```
./scripts/create_ws
```

### Build the docker image and compile

The recommended method for compiling the workspace and running the programs is to use docker.
If you do not want to use docker and you are using Ubuntu 22.04 and ROS Humble, you can skip these
steps and directly use `colcon` and `ros2` commands.
However, the following instructions assume that docker is being used.

You first need to install a recent version of docker compose by [following the instruction on the
docker documentation](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/linux/).
If it is already installed, you can check that its version is greater or equal to `2.20` using the
command:
```
docker compose version
```

Since the docker image is hosted in a private repository, you must first log docker in to the
registry server.
You can do it using this access token:
```
docker login gitlab-registry.irstea.fr -u tirrex -p nfUboGD4sj1e6DMzt9iq
```

After that, you can build the image (the first time) and compile the workspace:
```
docker compose run --rm compile
```
This command will:
* pull the lastest image containing a ROS environment with all the workspace dependencies installed
* build a local image based on the previous one but including a copy of your local
  user in order to execute every command using the same user as the host system
* run the `compile` service that execute a `catkin build` command to compile everything

## Installation (only for INRAE developers)

If you are an INRAE developer with an access to the projects on gitlab.irstea.fr, you can use
alternative repositories with ssh URLs.
To do that, you have to add `REPOS_FILE` in the `.env` file before creating the workspace and
building the docker image.
Execute the following commands:
```bash
git clone git@gitlab-ssh.irstea.fr:romea_projects/tirrex/tirrex_workspace.git
cd tirrex_workspace
echo 'REPOS_FILE=repositories.private' >> .env
./scripts/create_ws
docker login gitlab-registry.irstea.fr -u tirrex -p nfUboGD4sj1e6DMzt9iq
docker compose run --rm --build compile
```

## Running

You can run a simple simulation test that spawn a robot in Gazebo and can be controlled using a
joypad.
You just have to start one of the docker services corresponding to the robot name with the suffix
`_test`.
The currently available robots are `adap2e`, `campero`, `ceol`, `cinteo`, `hunter`, `husky`,
`scout_mini` and `robufast`.
For example, you can test `adap2e` using the command:
```
docker compose up adap2e_test
```

Alternatively, you can start a docker service using `run` to avoid prefixes on output lines:
```
docker compose run --rm adap2e_test
```

All the available services are defined in the file [`compose.yaml`](compose.yaml).
You can add your own services if you want to easily execute specific commands in the docker
environment.

### Run other commands in docker

If you want to execute a specific command, it is possible to specify it after `docker compose run`.
For example, you can manually start `adap2e_test` using:
```
docker compose run --rm bash ros2 launch adap2e_bringup adap2e_test.launch.py
```
Every `ros2` commands are available.
For example, it is possible to do `ros2 topic list` by executing
```
docker compose run --rm bash ros2 topic list
```

It is also possible to open a shell on the docker using the `bash` service:
```
docker compose run --rm bash
```

The option `--rm` allows to automatically delete the container when the command finishes.


## Architecture of the workspace

Here is a brief presentation of the main directories:

* `build` contains the files generated by the compilation step
* `docker` contains the configuration files for docker
* `gazebo` contains the downloaded gazebo models that are too large to be versioned
* `install` contains the shared files and executables of the ROS packages
* `log` contains the logged information of the compilation
* `scripts` contains some useful tools to prepare the workspace
* `src` contains all the cloned ROS packages

### How the docker image works

The docker image corresponds to an Ubuntu 22.04 image with a complete installation of ROS2 Humble
and all the dependencies of the ROS2 packages of this workspace.
The image is built from the [Dockerfile](docker/Dockerfile) and can be edited to add other ubuntu or
pip packages.

When a docker service is started, this workspace is mounted as a volume inside the docker
container and the ROS commands are run using your own Linux user.
This makes using the tools in docker similar to using them directly.
This means that, if you have ROS Humble on your host system, you should be able to direclty run ros2
commands without using docker commands.

### Organization of the ROS packages

In the `src` directory, the packages are organized in several sub-folders:

* `romea_core` contains all packages that are independant of ROS
* `romea_ros2` contains all ROS2 packages (in several sub-folders)
* `third_party` contains packages that are not written by our team

For more details about this packages, read their README.

## Updating

You can update the ROS packages using:
```
vcs pull -nw6
```

Some projects may fail to update if you have local modifications.
You have to manually handle these projects.
However, it is possible to stash your local changes on every project before updating by running
```
vcs custom -nw6 --args pull --rebase --autostash 
```

If you want to update projects and re-download the gazebo models, you can re-run the installation
script
```
./scripts/create_ws
```
