# Challenge 1: generate the best path

The aim of this challenge is to generate a robot path that passes through all the predefined
waypoints in the shortest possible time.
There is no order in the list of waypoints, so you have to find an order that minimizes the travel
time.
You also have to take into account the initial pose of the robot in the trajectory because the robot
does not start from one of the waypoints.
A map of the static obstacles is provided to simplify path calculation.
We evaluate the path generated by using our path-following algorithm at a maximal speed of 1 m/s
and measuring the time between the first and last validation of the waypoints.

### The path format

The generated path must be in the [TIARA trajectory
format](https://github.com/Romea/romea-ros-path-tools/blob/main/doc/tiara_format.md).
Some tools are provided in the [`romea_path_tools`](https://github.com/Romea/romea-ros-path-tools)
to visualize, convert or generate paths in this format.


### The provided list of waypoints

The list of waypoints is supplied as a CSV file with the following columns:

* `latitude`: latitude angle (in degrees) in the WGS84 standard
* `longitude`: longitude angle (in degrees) in the WGS84 standard
* `altitude`: elevation (in meters) in the WGS84 standard
* `x`: coordinate (in meters) along the _East_ axis in the local East-North-Up (ENU) coordinates
system
* `y`: coordinate (in meters) along the _North_ axis in the ENU coordinates system
* `z`: coordinate (in meters) along the _Up_ axis in the ENU coordinates system

The local East-North-Up (ENU) coordinates system corresponds to the cartesian coordinate system used
in the gazebo simulator.
The robot localization is computed in this frame (its frame ID is `map`).

A first list of waypoints is available in the package `fira_hackathon_gazebo`:
[`data/challenge1_waypoints_01.csv`](https://github.com/FiraHackathon/fira_hackathon_gazebo/blob/main/data/challenge1_waypoints_01.csv).
There is also a `.geojson` file containing the same waypoints in only WGS84 coordinates.
It allows you to easily visualize the points on online map such as
[geojson.io](https://geojson.io/#map=17.58/46.340178/3.435183) but it seems that there is a little
offset between the simulated world and the real one.

The files provided are just examples used to develop the path generation program.

The first version of the file contains only the waypoints that the robot must pass through.
A second version including waypoints defining the boundaries of the working area will be provided to you shortly.
This next version will be provided with explanation on the different elements constituing a waypoin.

The file used for evaluation will be different from the example here.


### The provided map of obstacles

The map of obstacles is supplied as a ROS
[OccupancyGrid](https://docs.ros2.org/foxy/api/nav_msgs/msg/OccupancyGrid.html) message.
It is published by a `map_server` node of the
[nav2_map_server](https://github.com/ros-planning/navigation2/blob/humble/nav2_map_server/README.md)
package.
The map is published in the `/map` topic when the node is activated and is also available on request
by using the `/map_server/map` service.

The map is also also available as YAML (`data/challenge1_map.yaml`) and PNG
(`data/challenge1_map.png`) files in the
[`fira_hackathon_gazebo`](https://github.com/FiraHackathon/fira_hackathon_gazebo/tree/main) package.


### The initial robot pose

The robot is spawned at a specific position and orientation in the world.
The generated path must take into account this pose and lead the robot to first waypoint.
This pose is published at runtime by the localization node in the
`/robot/localisation/filtered_odom` topic.
It is also available in the configuration file
[`cfg_chal1/robots/robot/base.yaml`](https://github.com/FiraHackathon/fira_hackathon_demo/blob/main/cfg_chal1/robots/robot/base.yaml)
of the [`fira_hackathon_demo`](https://github.com/FiraHackathon/fira_hackathon_demo) package.
It corresponds to the following values (it is an example):
```yaml
simulation:
  initial_xyz: [93.962, 117.368, 0.78]
  initial_rpy: [0.0, 0.0, 0.344]
```
where the `initial_xyz` corresponds to the position (in meters) in the `map` frame and `initial_rpy`
corresponds to the euler angles roll, pitch and yaw (in radian) of the robot orientation.


### The evaluation method

The ranking of participants in this challenge will be calculate on the basis of:
* the percentage of traversable surface area within the plot covered by the robot
* the number of waypoints validated
* the travel time between the first and last validation
* the number and time of collision with crops

__For information:__
A waypoint is validated when the robot origin (the center of the rear axle) passes within 20 cm of
the waypoint.
The time limit is 10 minutes.
